---
layout: post
title: Topological effects in the far field
---
Brief notes on a arXiv preprint, "Controlling scattering of light through topological transitions in all-dielectric metasurfaces" by Gorlach et al.

### Introduction
* We usually measure topological effects in the near field by observing the flow of electromagnetic radiation in our material, for example.
* The bulk-boundary correspondence is often used as an avenue to probe the bulk of a topological material by looking at edge states.

### What do they do?
* Rather than observing in the near field, here they examine the effects of a band inversion in the far field.
* Triangular lattice of hexagons of cylinders. The topological phase is created by shrinking or expanding the hexagons.
* They have a metasurface of cylindrical silicon pillars on a sapphire substrate.

### Why is it interesting?
* With a triangular lattice of hexagons, modes are "folded" compared to the honeycomb lattice. These folded modes now appear within the light cone and can be probed by far field measurements.
* Expect only to be able to couple to dipolar modes with normally incident light but they hybridise with quadrupolar modes away from the gamma point (cf. dark modes in Fano resonant systems)
* When the band inversion occurs across the topological phase transition, the dipolar and quadrupolar modes switch.
* We see different height peaks in the reflectance spectrum which switch when this inversion occurs. Makes it easier to confirm a topological state in photonic materials.

### Future avenues and questions
* How would a plasmonic metasurface perform?
* Is there an elastic analogue of this?

#### References:
[Controlling scattering of light through topological transitions in all-dielectric metasurfaces](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.04236)
